# gender classifier based on career choice

Career choice is influenced by a vast number of variables such as class, gender, school performance and participation in career development activities. Previous research has shown that career differences by gender might be due to cultural biases and gendered socialization.  In the present paper, the relationship between career expectation and gender is explored, by answering two research questions.The first one: what are the careers with more noticeable differences in gender on students enrolled in Spanish universities and has there been any change in the gender dynamic in career choice in the last three years in Spain? and the second one: what are the strongest variables related to the type of career a student decides to enroll in,  and can gender be predicted based on demographic and academic information? To answer the first question a statistical analysis was made on a dataset describing career choice and gender across the last 3 years in Spain, for the second one, a random forest algorithm was used with the purpose of examining if there is indeed a relationship between gender and career choice and how strong it is. The results show that Spain follows a trend when it comes to career choice, with women outnumbering men in almost all areas of study but engineering and architecture. Similarly, the results from the implementation of RF show a strong relationship between gender and area of study, following results from previous research. Limitations and further recommendations are described in the discussion section.

Keywords: gender, career choice, Spain, random forests.
